Okay, so let's go ahead and step through
the assignment. In the notes for the
course, you'll have a link to my GitHub
repository. The repository is
spring-boot-mongodb, so nothing to carefully
creative here. It's a pretty fairly generic
MongoDB application, using Spring Boot.
And you should have gone check that out.
Now, I already have, I don't think I need
to show you how to use GitHub. So here's
the project running inside of IntelliJ,
so I already have it mounted up on
IntelliJ. Let's go ahead and start
this guy up. Before we do that, I'm gonna
jump over the command window, and I am gonna clear
this... so another command, handy command,
is to see Docker logs.
docker logs will show you information
output to the console. So anything that
goes standard out. We'll do come to docker
logs. And let me show you one other
things, so if I do docker ps, so I already
have my Mongo instance running, just like
I showed you in the last section there.
So it is forwarding port on the
localhost 27017 to the container
port of 27017, so this is up. It's
running. Everything's happy with that. So
now, if I come up to docker logs, and the
-f is follow. So it's easy for me to
remember, when I'm like using a Linux
command, if I want tail log, so I can do
the tail command -f. This works just
like that, so I'm gonna do Docker logs
and the -f and then I'm using the
names, so you can see that bbd39
matches up to the name, so I'll
highlight that here, so this value here,
actually matches up to that value, so
that's the container ID, so I could also
use this compassionate_ritchie, which is
the container name. So if you don't
specify a name, Docker will make one up
and actually comes up with some
I am using ones at times, so apparently, our
Mongo database container is
compassionate_ritchie. So I'm gonna go and
start tailing those logs. I'm just
gonna hit under a few times. It says
that there's one connection open. I'm not
quite sure what it's become a crumb be
honest. So, let's jump over here to
IntelliJ. Now I can go to the terminal
window in IntelliJ, and just in case
that you're not familiar with IntelliJ,
I'm gonna go mvn spring-boot:run
and this will run the Spring Boot
application through Maven. So if you
don't have IntelliJ and you do have
Maven installed, and have brought in this
application, you'll be able to run that.
So now, we can see down there at the
bottom of screen, the Tomcat has started.
Its on port 8080, and now if I come back
over here to the console, we can see that
I do in fact, have an another database
connection to Mongo. So let's come over
here and go into Chrome. I have this
here and I was doing some testing, so
it's already up, so new product, so I can
click on that, My New Product. I get a
dollar, some url, and now I'm gonna
click on Submit. And we can see that it's
come back and it's got a product Id.
I'm gonna go back to this. If I go to
that, now I can see that product is
there. I can come in and edit this. Will say
a new Product 33, submit, so now if I come
back, I'll also see that on the listing.
So new Product 33. So that is displaying
and working okay. I just wanna point
out,
jumping back over here to IntelliJ, this
is a kind of a quick and dirty
application. Just meant to do some CRUD
operations with MongoDB. Definitely not
the definitive resource on MongoDB, but
it is a working example. Now I wanna
point out the way that Spring Boot is
working, so if you notice, I don't, I'm not
overriding any properties at all. So I am
purely using the Spring Boot defaults. If
I come in here, so then InteliJ's
intellisense
shows us a number of things that we can
override. So if I need to override any of
those, I could do so here, with these
property settings in IntelliJ. So number
of things that we can do, I am not using
the embedded MongoDB. I am using peer
MongoDB, so these are kicking in. And
again, we're using the sensible defaults.
So, if for some reason, I had multiple
Mongo instances running on my system, I
could actually add in, like a different
port mapping to go to the other port of
Mongo. So again, this is pretty handy how
Spring Boot works. Knowing that, the
standard defaults of MongoDB its already
pre-wired for that, so I didn't have to
do anything. It was actually a bit more
work creating this little MongoDB
application, than it was to get it
actually connect to Mongo DB running
inside the Docker container on my
localhost.